---
title: P6 User Testing & Final Release
layout: doc
---

# Project Phase 3: Convergent Design
November 20, 2024. By Carla, Adriana, Arzy, Arli

## Interview plan

### Tasks list

| Title | Instruction | Rationale (elaborate, design choices) |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Searching & Requesting items | You have a tree nut allergy. How do you search for cookies and make sure they are ok to consume. First check for available listings, then if not found, post a request. | We want to know if users with food allergies can easily filter out items they can have. Would they use search or just scroll listings? We want to check if the flow of checking what’s listed and then requesting makes sense Also, in many apps (Depop, Facebook marketplace), requests are done by the post functionality, so Listing might be the first thing the user thinks of |
| Claiming | Now imagine a scenario where you are cooking pasta, but you run out of tomatoes, so you want to check if anyone on the Wellesley campus is giving them away. Claim the item.  | Check whether location field needs to be a filter, or it is easy to find the suitable location by clicking on items filtered by date; Also check if sorting by expiration date is actually making users select those items first. See if when claiming users pay attention to reviews. |
| Cancel claiming | You change your mind and want to unclaim tomatoes. How would you do that? | In rare cases when the user is no longer interested in the item, would they find it in their profile under claims? |
| Reviewing exchange experience  | You received an item but it was spoiled. Let other users know about this and review the experience. | Seeing if reviewing or reporting is favored by users in cases of misbehavior. We implemented both concepts but reviewing is meant more for sharing feedback with others and reporting for limiting user misbehavior. |
| Listing items | You have leftover coconut cake (5 slices).  Create a listing for this item for the other users that might be interested in claiming it. | Testing if user will first check requests to see if anyone is looking for coconut cake. Testing if user ever looks at the instructions in FAQ. Testing if lister will input allergy information. What if there is no place for custom allergy (will they use the  description field?) Test how user inputs expiration date |
| Offering items | You have 4 leftover onions. How would you get rid of them? | Testing if user first checks requests to see if anyone is looking for onions. |
| Updating listings | You created a listing for coconut cake. However, your roommate actually ate 3 of the slices. How would you go about updating the listing? | Seeing if user will locate the item from Home Page or Profile page. This is important because the whole point of profile page is storing posting history of the user. |
| More products by same user | Say you’re viewing an item access the other products that the author might have. | This will help us determine if it is something that should be shown with a button that says something like see other users’ listings. Or if they should appear under the product, like suggested. The idea is that it would be convenient to “batch” pick up! |


### Questions after the interview:

1. How would you describe your overall experience using the app?  
2. Were there any aspects you found particularly enjoyable or frustrating?  
3. Did you find the app intuitive to navigate?  
4. Were there any features or functions that were difficult to locate or use?  
5. Did any design elements aid or hinder your ability to use the app effectively?  
6. Were there any features you found unnecessary or redundant?  
7. How does your experience with this app compare to similar apps you've used?  
8. What changes or additions would enhance your experience with the app?

## Interview summaries

### User 1 \[Arli conducted\]: 

* **User info**: Eva is a college student that lives in a cooperative housing meaning they share meals and cook with other students. They also have dietary restrictions due to an illness.  

*  **Task completion:** Through the different tasks that were asked, the user seemed to struggle the most with where to start. Once I read their task they automatically went to the search button to find ‘cookies’, and found the Request section with a cookie request which they clicked on and was <span style="color:#0049B7">stuck with what to do next</span>. I explained to them that they were under the request section of the website, which made me believe that simply splitting the website into two sections and naming them Listings and having to scroll through Requests was not enough. However, overall filling the forms for <span style="color:#0049B7">creating a request, and creating a listing went smooth<span>. For the third task, I asked the user to review their experience with a previous interaction they had with the user who put out a listing. To my surprise, this task was done efficiently because the user <span style="color:#0049B7">found the three dots next to the profile intuitive</span>. This task completion confirms our ability to express reviewing and reporting through an action that a typical user with social media can be familiar with. In terms of editing listings – which was not noted when creating the listing, was that the user specified more about the <span style="color:#0049B7">quantity</span> in the description, ensuring that they can distinguish that it was not 4 whole coconut cakes vs 4 slices of coconut cake. Some other things that were noted was that the UI with the <span style="color:#0049B7">‘+’ button<span> that opens to show a create listing vs create request is one of the very few aspects of the UI that they found difficult to navigate through. 

* **Overall feedback:** they <span style="color:#0049B7">“never used an app like this \[before\]”.<span> They appreciated how the app allowed them to share food among other individuals in their proximity, and enjoyed how the app also took into account for both perishable/non-perishable foods with the expiration dates. 

### User 2: Nikita

* **About user:** Nikita is a student refugee living in Germany on a social security allowance. He lives in a shared apartment and takes turns cooking with his roommate. We chose him because of his international perspective and his membership in a vulnerable community.   
* **Presenting the app:** When first presented with the app, he was not sure it needed to exist because <span style="color:#0049B7">“I can simply message in the \[community\] chat,”</span>> but after I explained the purpose and the unique functionality, he was convinced that this was a helpful app that addressed a need in the community. Indeed, to a European mindset, food insecurity is not as common and perhaps food sharing is not seen as unusual, so there are other ways people have found to engage in that.  
* **Completing tasks:** When tasked with finding cookies without nuts, the user <span style="color:#0049B7">navigated the search and filtering very smoothly</span>. However, if someone posted cookies with no nuts but didn’t select the category, the user would miss them. He easily located how to add a new request. That indicated that <span style="color:#0049B7">icons for navigation are familiar and clear</span>. When creating a request, however, he expressed <span style="color:#0049B7">frustration with the date format</span>. It was not clear either that the request would automatically delete after needBy date has passed, so communicating this would be helpful, perhaps above the field input. On the other hand, <span style="color:#0049B7">claiming was very straightforward</span>. He easily found the claim he just made on his profile. The listing view for items already claimed needs to be implemented so user can unclaim in case they change their mind. When complaining about another user's <span style="color:#0049B7">misbehavior, he chose the report option over reviewing</span>. He was a bit confused about where he could find the report he just created. Perhaps we need an explanation that the user won’t see the subject’s posts anymore and the report influences the subject’s ability to claim in the future. For listing items, the user navigated easily but found the form really inconvenient. He suggested an option to include more photos. Interestingly, the <span style="color:#0049B7">name field again was confused with user’s name</span>, so we definitely need to change this to “Item” for the frontend label, or add a placeholder with a more suggestive content like “Apple”. I noticed he could enter a really long name, so it needs to be limited to an appropriate character count. Another problem was entering quantity. It was <span style="color:#0049B7">not clear that quantity here stands for how many items are available for claiming as opposed to actual item measurement</span>. “What if I want to list half a bread, what do I do?” Another issue is not being able to create a <span style="color:#0049B7">custom category</span> the user seems suitable for the item. When tasked to get rid of an item, the user first looked in requests, which is what we expected, instead of creating a new listing right away. When editing a listing, he actually clicked on the item on the Home page instead of Profile page.   
* **Overall feedback:** Nuzet found app’s functionality very straightforward. It was nice to have <span style="color:#0049B7">a separation of concern</span> for listing, requesting, claiming, and offering, as well as reviewing, which makes <span style="color:#0049B7">"choosing \[what you need\] very easy.”</span>  Nuzet did not have experience with apps like this before, so he was very grateful for it\! For improvements, he suggested <span style="color:#0049B7">sorting items based on more options</span> like location or relevance. He also said he would be happy to see a feature that lets users know that the listing author of the item they are claiming is also listing other items.

### User 3: Sara \[Adriana conducted\]

* **About user:** Sara is a recent alum who just moved to Boston, has a low-income job, and has multiple food allergies and sensitivities  
*  **Completing tasks:** When tasked with creating a listing the user struggled finding the option for it, they mentioned that the <span style="color:#0049B7">“+” button is not straightforward enough</span>. It it worth adding the label “Create” to that button.  
One of the tasks that the user also struggled the most with was reviewing somebody, it takes <span style="color:#0049B7">too many clicks to get to their profile and then go through reviews to find the submit review option</span>. This would work better if it was just a button next to the user name  in the listing or just as a button at the top of their profile.  
Overall Sarah found the structuring of the website useful, the landing page with the the listings and requests and <span style="color:#0049B7">side scrolls for each section worked good for her</span>. They thought the items’ thumbnails were descriptive enough, but it would also be helpful to <span style="color:#0049B7">include the quantity</span> next to the name as it gives an easier read. When going though the singular listings they said the categories available where useful because that is something that she relies on a daily basis to stay safe from her food allergies. They were organized enough but there were some items they saw where some <span style="color:#0049B7">ingredients where probably used but not tagged</span> by the author, for example eggs, they expected the author to have to choose yes/no for each possible allergy ingredient and for it to be a required response.  
As they were also going through the information available in other users’ profiles they were slightly confused as to <span style="color:#0049B7">why would it be relevant for other people to see the the historic listings of items that have been claimed</span>, they thought that would be more applicable to something like stores because they refill an item and have it available again. Maybe for the purpose of giving credibility it would be enough just having a counter or something like karma that shows this.  
Lastly something that they expressed that made the experience quite tricky was the absence of a <span style="color:#0049B7">back button</span> (although they also used their computer’s back/forward buttons). In one flow they were checking out a profile’s item but couldn't go back to just the profile, instead they had to go back to the home page. Back buttons are not necessary, but we should probably define routes better so they meet user's mindmap.

## Opportunities for Improvement

## Design Revisions